---
title: "For I AM LIFE"
---

I AM the Innermost, the Spirit, the animating Cause of your being, of
all life, of all living things, both visible and invisible. There is
nothing dead, for I, the Impersonal ONE, AM all that there is.

I AM Infinite and wholly unconfined; the Universe is My Body, all the
Intelligence there is emanates from My Mind, all the Love there is flows
from My Heart, all the Power there is, is but My Will in action.

The threefold Force, manifesting as all Wisdom, all Love, all Power,
or if you will, as Light, Heat, and Energy that which holds together
all forms and is back of and in all expressions and phases of life,
is but the manifestation of My Self in the act or state of Being.

Nothing can Be without manifesting and expressing some phase of Me,
Who AM not only the Builder of all forms, but the Dweller in each. In
the heart of each I dwell; in the heart of the human, in the heart of
the animal, in the heart of the flower, in the heart of the stone. In
the heart of each I live and move and have My Being, and from out the
heart of each I send forth that phase of Me I desire to express, and
which manifests in the outer world as a stone, a flower, an animal, a
man.

Is there nothing, then, but this great I? Am I to be permitted no
individuality for myself? I hear you ask.

No, there is nothing, absolutely nothing, that is not a part of Me,
controlled and ruled eternally by Me, the One Infinite Reality.

As for your so-called individuality, that is nothing but your
personality still seeking to maintain a separate existence.

Soon you shall know there is no individuality apart from My
Individuality, and all personality shall fade away into My Divine
Impersonality.

Yes, and you shall soon reach that state of awakening where you will
get a glimpse of My Impersonality, and you will then desire no
individuality, no separation for yourself; for you will see that is
but one more illusion of the personality.

